Project Report Questions

A description of the Boston Housing dataset can be found here. Use this slide as reference to the project questions you will encounter in the notebook. These questions (and your answers) must be present in your included PDF report.

Statistical Analysis and Data Exploration

This question is integrated into the project notebook output.
Using the NumPy library, calculate a few meaningful statistics about the dataset:

How many data points (houses) were collected?
How many features are present for each house?
What is the minimum housing price? The maximum?
What is the mean housing price? The median?
What is the standard deviation of all housing prices?
1) Of the available features for a given home, choose three you feel are significant and give a brief description for each of what they measure.

2) Using your client’s feature set CLIENT_FEATURES in the template code, which values correspond to the chosen features?

Evaluating Model Performance

3) Why do we split the data into training and testing subsets?

4) Which performance metric below is most appropriate for predicting housing prices and analyzing error? Why?

Accuracy
Precision
Recall
F1 score
Mean Squared Error (MSE)
Mean Absolute Error (MAE)
5) What is the grid search algorithm and when is it applicable?

6) What is cross-validation and how is it performed on a model? Why would cross-validation be helpful when using grid search?

Analyzing Model Performance

7) Choose one of the learning curve graphs your code creates. What is the max depth for the model? As the size of the training set increases, what happens to the training error? Describe what happens to the testing error.

8) Look at the learning curve graphs for the model with a max depth of 1 and a max depth of 10. When the model is using the full training set, does it suffer from high bias or high variance when the max depth is 1? What about when the max depth is 10?

9) From the model complexity graph, describe the training and testing errors as the max depth increases. Based on your interpretation of the graph, which max depth results in a model that best generalizes the dataset? Why?

Model Prediction

To answer the following questions, it is recommended that you run your notebook several times and use the median or mean value as your result.

10) Using grid search, what is the optimal max depth for your model? How does this result compare to your initial intuition?

11) With your parameter-tuned model, what is the best selling price for your client’s home? How does this selling price compare to the statistics you calculated on the dataset?

12) In a few sentences, discuss whether you would use this model or not to predict the selling price of future clients’ homes in the Boston area.
